Now that we've covered
different frameworks,
controls, security principles,
and compliance regulations,
the question is:
How do they all work together?
The answer to that question is
by conducting security audits.
A security audit is a review of
an organization's
security controls,
policies, and procedures
against a set of expectations.
There are two main types of
security audits:
external and internal.
We'll focus on internal
security audits
because those are the types
of audits that
entry-level analysts
might be asked to contribute to.
An internal security audit is
typically conducted by a team of
people that might include
an organization's
compliance officer,
security manager, and other
security team members.
Internal security audits
are used to help improve
an organization's security
posture and help organizations
avoid fines from governing
agencies due to a
lack of compliance.
Internal security audits help
security teams identify
organizational risk,
assess controls, and
correct compliance issues.
Now that we've discussed the
purposes of internal audits,
let's cover some common
elements of internal audits.
These include
establishing the scope
and goals of the audit,
conducting a risk assessment
of the organization's assets,
completing a
controls assessment,
assessing compliance,
and communicating
results to stakeholders.
In this video, we'll cover
the first two elements, which are
a part of the audit
planning process:
establishing the
scope and goals,
then completing a
risk assessment.
Scope refers to the
specific criteria
of an internal security audit.
Scope requires organizations
to identify people, assets,
policies, procedures,
and technologies that might
impact an organization's
security posture.
Goals are an outline of
the organization's
security objectives,
or what they want to achieve
in order to improve
their security posture.
Although more senior-level
security team members and
other stakeholders
usually establish
the scope and goals
of the audit,
entry-level analysts might be
asked to review and understand
the scope and goals in order to
complete other
elements of the audit.
As an example, the scope of
this audit involves
assessing user permissions;
identifying existing
controls, policies,
and procedures;
and accounting for
the technology currently in
use by the organization.
The goals outlined include
implementing core
functions of frameworks,
like the NIST CSF;
establishing policies
and procedures to ensure
compliance; and strengthening
system controls.
The next element is
conducting a risk assessment,
which is focused on identifying
potential threats, risks,
and vulnerabilities.
This helps
organizations consider
what security measures should
be implemented and monitored
to ensure the safety of assets.
Similar to establishing
the scope and goals,
a risk assessment is oftentimes
completed by managers
or other stakeholders.
However, you might
be asked to analyze
details provided in
the risk assessment
to consider what types of
controls and
compliance regulations
need to be in place to help
improve the organization's
security posture.
For example, this
risk assessment
highlights that there
are inadequate controls,
processes, and procedures in
place to protect the
organization's assets.
Specifically, there is a
lack of proper management of
physical and digital assets,
including employee equipment.
The equipment used to
store data is not
properly secured.
And access to private
information stored in
the organization's
internal network
likely needs more robust
controls in place.
Now that we've discussed
the initial planning elements
of an internal security audit,
coming up, we'll focus on
the last three elements.